This is side three, take two of the Brodsky interview, and we have a new individual who's joined us, and I wonder, Bob, if you could just give your full name and spell it for my title.
Robert W. Hamblin, H-A-M-B-L-I-N.
Okay.
And what do you do here?
I'm a professor of English at Southeast Missouri State University, Cape Girardeau.
And I...
I understand that you were influential in bringing, arranging for the transfer of Brotsky collection here to the University.
Well, I met LD in 1978, I believe it was, and we worked together for the next dozen years on the materials, doing books, exhibits, articles, and the...
His decision to place the materials at the university in part was a culmination of our decade and more work with the materials.
You were aware of course that he had been talking to other institutions like Yale and Mississippi and Virginia.
So did it come as a surprise to you that
Yes, indeed.
It was quite a surprise.
We were seated in this room, in fact, having lunch with the president of the University Bill Stacy at that time, then president.
He's in California now.
We were having lunch here one day, and in the course of our conversation,
Eldie said, Bill, there's something I've been meaning to talk to you about.
I think it's time to consider placing the collection here on a permanent basis.
And I heard it fell out of my chair, I think.
And I said to Bill, you're hearing this for the first time.
I'm hearing it for the first time just as you are.
Eldie's never said anything like this to me.
I was aware, of course, that he was talking to other institutions.
He had never talked to us previously.
We had never asked.
I had never suggested that.
In fact, I pretty much stayed out of that aspect.
Why had you never asked?
Well, I felt myself very fortunate as a Faulkner scholar just to have the opportunity to work for 10 years or so with this caliber of material.
And Eldie and I first started, what developed early on was a very close friendship.
Even before we got deeply into the
Faulkner materials the publishing and all I mean we enjoyed each other's company we saw a lot of each other and and I just didn't I mean he'd given me a wonderful opportunity to work with these materials and I thought it would be a
rather ungracious of me to try to influence him on where the material should go.
I was not privy to that kind of discussion.
And even after Stacy and LD began the negotiations about the placing of the materials here, I was not involved in very much of that at all.
I'm going to intrude just long enough to say that it's that kind of attitude that I very much appreciated.
The fact that there was no pushiness
from anyone here, ever, and that when things were done, there was an appreciation.
I liked that, and I felt that was really respectful of me.
As a graduate of Ole Miss, having done my master's in doctor's there, and then looking at Texas and Yale and Mississippi, my preference personally all along, since I really didn't think that we were in the running for the collection at all, that's a good idea.
I guess if I had a personal preference in those years, Ole Miss probably would have been the school that I would have hoped the collection might go to.
When that didn't work out and the LD approached us here, then of course I got very excited about the prospects.
for Southeast.
But up to that time, I think, I guess I'd always assumed and maybe hoped that the collection would go to Ole Miss as my alma mater.
You were aware of questions that you must have certainly learned at some point that there were stumbling blocks, difficulties made by these other institutions.
Have you had to come up with some kind of
package I guess. It just wouldn't come to the university I guess I think. You were aware that you had to make LD happy. Well there were things here concerned with those things at all. Or if he was telling you, that wasn't his concern. I've said it but when you broached the subject at that point that that did you like the collection here
But that was broached to Stacy, the president, and not to me.
I was not involved.
But I think what I recognized as L.D.
and Bill talked, and I was not present in that negotiation.
You know, there were lawyers and accountants, and I was not party to any of that.
But...
what i recognized from the point of view of president stacy was that this institution is at a transitional stage in its history and they're looking for various ways to to become more prestigious they're going to division one in athletics for example they are
They are trying to create a national reputation.
And so the coincidence, if you want to look at that, of L.D.
speaking to Bill at a time when Stacy was looking for opportunities to put this institution on the map.
That's right.
And Stacy went for it.
And because if you're number two, you try harder.
And maybe when you get right down to it, Ole Miss and Yale and institutions that already have established
Faulkner collections and so-called major universities, maybe they didn't have to push quite as hard.
And so I think when Stacy saw the opportunity here for what this collection could do for this institution,
He got right to work on it, and I believe it was just a matter of a few months.
I mean, LD had been negotiating, talking at least to some of these other institutions for several years.
When Stacy got involved in this project, the deal was wrapped up in about six months.
And I think it had to do largely with not only LD's interest at that point in placing the collection here, but the fact that Stacy saw an opportunity to do something of national prominence, even international prominence.
And that all tied in with what was being perceived at that time to be the changing mission of this institution.
Would you say that...
the Barton Collection is the major special collection at the university?
Yes.
Nothing here to robbery.
So that's... It is Division I. It's the equivalent of Division I in athletics.
And you asked me about my ego, and I told you that I had no sense of ego involved in this.
The fact that it is of premier importance on this campus does not give me any kind of an ego inflation at all.
I don't care.
I come down here and I work with Bob.
None of the kids know me down here.
The people were very nice to me here.
They've given me a few honors.
Well, those honors are just honors.
I don't really thrive on honors.
I never have.
I thrive on accomplishment.
And the best thing I've had down here is considerable respect from people who've read about the collection in the paper here or what have you.
But as far as it being an ego thing for me, it is not.
It makes me feel great that it's real important here and that it has an opportunity to do something for this university.
That's why I put it here.
Washington, you gave me the impression that it wouldn't do much for them.
Beinecke, Yale gave me the impression it wouldn't do much for them.
They were too great already.
Virginia, the same thing.
Well, I told you before in the car, fuck them.
You know, I mean it.
I want someone, but not for my ego, to be able to derive a strong benefit from it.
And in fact, we can bring people from Amsterdam and from Germany.
And who knows the untold people?
I've had letters from Russia now, from Iraq
on the collection. Oh by the way i have a great piece of news to share with you editor handler and you'll enjoy this one. I affected I got the facts in my attache. I affected Country Lawyer and Stallion Road are the next two that are going in the French translation and but sure but soon. Congratulations. ALl right. We've got two more French titles coming.
It's wonderful.
I'm really excited about that.
They came around.
They have.
I forced them into coming around nicely on that.
I'll tell you that whole story later.
They came around.
In fact, they're publishing three of my poetry books.
They're going to take, they're going to publish three volumes.
The Thorough Earth and 4 and 20 Blackbirds Soaring, Volume 1.
Volume 2, You Can't Go Back Exactly and Mississippi Vistas together.
Each of those makes 150 page books in French translation.
Volume 3, Falling from Heaven.
Good for you.
Holocaust poems of a Jew and a Gentile, 112 poems, coming out in volume three.
Coming out April 92, October 92, and April 93.
Is that a whopper?
That stuff.
I have to go to Paris for that.
You betcha.
Invite me to the party, please, will you?
You bet.
You can come along.
But we got two more Faulkner books working.
Nice.
And then I got other stuff.
That's why I need to come down and work with you next week.
Okay, keep us going.
Okay, Bob.
You're a Faulkner Scholar, and all of a sudden, you've been here 20 years, the institution becomes a primary repository for Faulkner material.
Tell me a little bit about how that makes you feel.
Well, it's staggering.
I remember I've written about the first time I saw the collection in Farmington, and it was about half the size then as it is now.
But I had left Ole Miss, had finished my dissertation on Faulkner.
I thought I was sort of tired of Faulkner, actually, at that point.
That would have been 77 or 78.
And I had, after I'd finished that dissertation, I checked in all the Faulkner books and checked out some books on Robert Frost, and I actually wrote the first paragraph of an essay.
He said, one of the things that has enabled
One of the things that's enabled us, I think, to keep up some enthusiasm, not only for working together, maybe, but for the Faulkner material, is we have other projects.
Of course, he has his poetry, and I do other things as well.
And so when we get a little burned out on the Faulkner, a little tired, fatigued, we just turn to the other projects.
I do a lot of sports literature.
He does his own poetry.
So it's...
keep a little variety, and the one thing I always worried about throughout my academic career is becoming a damn specialist, and I guess this is, I may appear to be a specialist, but I do other things as well.
Bob is a wonderful poet, and he is now, has been for a few years the poetry editor of Athlon, which is real nice, and he's been real involved in sports literature.
It's interesting to me, Bill Hayen is also very interested in that.
We're bringing him down to St.
Louis next week.
I'm hoping maybe you'll come up if I can't come down, but I want you to meet him for sure.
I think it's real important.
I've also recently started writing about some of the 1960s at Ole Miss when I was there.
I was federalized with the National Guard during the Meredith integration.
My graduate school days were in those mid-sixties when Ole Miss was dealing with integration.
There were some racial demonstrations on campus, and I produced a couple of articles.
They're part memory, but also I've had access to letters and historical documents, and so it's kind of reconstructing some of those events.
What I'm working on now is the history of the 1965 Southern Literary Festival, which was held at Ole Miss, and there was a racial demonstration because the black delegation from Tugally attended, and it's interesting to
to reconstruct history, especially if you were there at the time.
And it's not deja vu because you see things now that you didn't see then.
You're seeing behind the scenes and using the documents, the letters that the university has provided for me.
And let me keep those.
So the last several weeks, I've been devoting a little bit of my time to interviewing people in Oxford and writing that article.
I'm going to get you back on the other track.
We hope the Journal of Mississippi History will bring out a special issue.
They do special numbers sometimes devoted, like monographs, and that's Ole Miss is willing to
subsidize it to a certain extent.
Our institution here would do the same.
Are you a Mississippi native?
Yeah.
So Faulkner to you is... Well, but I never read Faulkner until I got to graduate school at Ole Miss.
We didn't read him in high school.
He was not highly regarded.
We're all about the same generation.
Right.
But I studied Faulkner in a seminar with John Pilkington, a noted Faulkner scholar.
It's debated whether Pilkington or Carville Collins was the first to teach a Faulkner seminar.
But Pilkington was teaching his Faulkner seminar when I was a graduate student at Ole Miss, and I took that.
And that's really the first time I really got deeply into Faulkner.
I had studied Faulkner as an undergraduate student with Dan Young at Delta State.
He later wound up at Vanderbilt and was a very fine Faulkner Scholar, Southern Lit Scholar, T.D.
Thomas Daniel Young.
So I read Faulkner in Dan Young's Southern Lit Class at Delta State.
I think it was As I Lay Dying, a couple of the stories.
But it wasn't really until I got to Ole Miss with Pilkington that I got deeply into Faulkner.
Same kind of thing that happened to L.D.
at Yale, and once you get hooked.
I did my master's thesis on Faulkner.
I did my doctorate dissertation on Faulkner.
I published a couple of pieces of that dissertation and then I met L.D.
One of the best things that ever happened in my whole life was meeting Bob.
That really changed everything.
I think I told you to some extent in the car that his call and then our beginnings together, I mentioned
Nick how you had asked me and of course as the years go by we distill this into into just a few catch phrases but I've distilled it into that one question that you asked me well what are you going to do with all this LD and that and of course it was more complex than that because he and I are more articulate than that but in the final analysis it was that question that I kept coming back to repeatedly so that Bob and I began to share and he suggested
Why don't we do an exhibit here at this university?
And we created what wasn't such a modest exhibit.
It was the fourth big exhibit I'd done.
I told you about the one at Washington U in the 60s, and then the two in the 60s, the one at the Public Library at St.
Louis, and then the one at Washington U, and then the one in the 70s.
The one Bob and I created here in 1979 yielded a book, our first book.
What started out to be just a little record of that exhibit turned out to be the inchoate core of a larger bibliography that we would develop, and it was called a descriptive catalog, wasn't it?
No, the Louis Daniel Brodsky Collection, or something like that.
selections from, and it turned out to be not just a catalog of what was in the exhibit, did it?
But rather the highlights.
By that time, Bob and I, he'd only been working with me for about a year, and we assessed what the highlights were at that time.
So it would be real interesting to take that book published in 1979 by University of Virginia Press,
and compare it with what we will do with the final bibliography in the 90s.
It should be just staggering to see how advanced the collection became.
Now, the collection grew by leaps and bounds once I met Bob, because he gave me the opportunity to put in place a raison d'etre.
And that was that I wanted to continue collecting, and I wanted to work with Bob, and together we would collaborate on making books about the collection.
Did he point you in any directions for things to go after?
Well, he didn't do that so much as just suggested in the beginning how significant it might be for us to take a lot of the artifacts already in the collection and highlight those in articles.
and then in the books so that people could see what we had and could use it.
So one of the early things we did, Bob wrote an early article that appeared in Studies and Bibliography on our 1940 William Faulkner will.
He wrote that solo.
And after that I said, hey, that's pretty neat.
That may have come out in 78 or 79.
I can't remember.
I said, wow, that's neat.
I said, Bob, let's collaborate on one.
So the next one we worked on together.
appeared in studies and bibliography, maybe in 1980, and it was on one of our manuscripts called L'Opéra Medie d'un Fan.
Now, that's real butchered French.
But it was Faulkner's first published poem.
It appeared in the New Republic in 1919.
Spell it.
L'Opéra Medie d'un Fan.
And we'll show you that title.
But what was significant about this was that this had come out of William Faulkner's mother's home, the manuscript, from the attic.
out of one of Faulkner's trunks.
It had been on a cover of a magazine that when Bob went to work investigatively, he was able to discover that it was a Saturday evening post from a specific date that Faulkner had most likely scribbled on up in Canada while he was still taking his pilot training in Toronto.
So he and I together did investigation, and we then worked on a textual study of the poem.
And it excited me so much.
He brought to it much talent that I didn't have.
A lot of his background was in the scholarship.
Mine had not been.
I had been a collector and a writer.
I think what happened early on in the collaboration, first of all, I thought we'd do the one exhibit and the one book, and that would probably be the end of the collaboration.
I mean, neither one of us foresaw that...
First of all, that the collection would continue to grow almost geometric proportions the way it did, or that we would continue for 10 years or so as collaborators.
Again, it was honor enough at that point for this institution to be able to host that three-month exhibit and to have a book associated with the university published by the University of Virginia Press.
We just hadn't thought that there would be anything beyond that particularly.
There didn't need to be.
As we continue to work together, and what happened as we did the articles and so on, what surfaced was that there was a need for the collection to focus more and more on manuscript material as opposed to books.
If it was going to sustain the scholarship, you know, the books are beautiful and it's the finest Faulkner book collection in the world.
In fact, they're more inscribed books by Faulkner in this collection than in all the other Faulkner collections put together.
So as a book collection, it's very valuable, it's very beautiful, it's very significant, but the books will not sustain the level of scholarship and research that letters, wills, manuscripts.
And so when L.D.
got turned on to writing articles and publishing,
And that created a necessity for him to focus more on manuscript material than he had done previously.
So the Hollywood and the Hollywood film scripts became available, for example, that opened up a whole new, well, so far four new volumes, you see, and more to come.
So I think there was a...
just a natural development as he changed his focus from collecting to scholarship, then that naturally sent the collection into a different direction.
He had to build those parts of the collection that sustained the scholarship.
I want to add something to that, if I can, if you bring that over there.
I think what happened to me, I've already told you, too, about the sense of dynamism that has to be in collecting for me here, and that is that I was meeting people.
What happened is, in meeting Bob,
A friendship grew that was more important, that finally was transcendent to the collecting and to the scholarship, so that I was deriving immense pleasure out of working with Bob, making the books.
Everything was sort of feeding into itself.
Yes, it was really gratifying to make these scholarly books, but the turn-on for me was sharing in the endeavor.
of mining the material, of writing the manuscripts that made the book, creating the manuscript for the book, for each of these books that we published.
We ended up, we've now published seven books,
with University Press of Mississippi, and we have a contract for six more.
And we will doubtless make those in the next six, seven years.
So even though we didn't get the collection, there's still no high-feeling stuff.
Well, no, because U Press of Mississippi publishes for all the Mississippi universities, not just Ole Miss at Oxford.
But the real thrill, I repeat, was in the sharing of the endeavor, and that's what.
Bob never once said, well, you need to go out and get more letters, or you need to get more manuscripts so we can keep going.
Matter of fact, quite the contrary.
I think I always used to beleaguer him.
I'd come back with a new trover, I'd give him a buzz, and I'd say, Robert, I'd say, you're not going to believe it, but I just came back from such and such, and I brought home some bacon.
I've always told LD that I've got the whole collaboration.
I feel like the person who's running to catch on to the caboose, you know, the train's pulling out of the station, and this fellow has so much energy, and I'm...
and drive, and I was so active in the collecting.
It was difficult for me at times just to keep up, just in carding the material, or if we were working on articles.
And so when he would come with a new cache of materials, and I was happy, but I also sometimes tended to feel rather frustrated because there are not enough lifetimes, you know, to deal with all of this.
And so it just,
There were times when I just, as I say, felt like I was trying to run along the track and trying to get back on the train.
That's kind of a rather unusual experience for a scholar and an academic.
Generally you get collections and then you take it from there.
But you were kind of involved in the building of a collection, I guess, or you were witness to the building of a collection.
Well, I'd never worked with a collector.
I'd never known a book collector before.
Like many people, I had this stereotype of some older person.
I was really surprised when I first met L.D.
when he walked into the bank there in Farmington, how young he was.
I'd expected an older person.
What really surprised me as we continued to work together was his willingness and interest in sharing the material.
And I think that is true.
He is different there.
I think with other collectors that I've since met through him or since meeting him,
So many of them are not really willing to share their materials with scholars, with the general public.
They're afraid that publishing a document will decrease its material value.
They want to afford the materials.
Part of the joy of collecting, I presume, is having something that nobody else has.
And LD, I've observed him grow in that area.
When I met him, he was a collector, primarily because he'd never given a lot of consideration to doing other things with the collection.
But what's impressed me has been his willingness to grow and develop.
And I've been not only impressed, I've been amazed at the extent to which he is willing to help scholars and share the material.
Again, early on, I thought if we could just get one exhibit and one book, that might be the extent of what this university could achieve in that regard.
And it's been largely his
generosity and sharing that's made the other things happen.
There's a, you know, the standard stereotype of a collector is just obsessed.
passionate person who really is driven to acquire every pregnant item that he can.
Do you see any of that in L.D.?
Well, yes indeed.
I think he is the obsessive in his drive to collect, but he's also obsessive in his desire to
to go beyond the collecting to do some other positive things with the materials.
Did you ever find any of us amusing, you know, Lord, what trolls these mortals?
Well, I've benefited, there's no doubt.
I'm more laid back, and I don't have the energy level.
I have to back off and recoup and play golf.
I'm amazed at this fellow's energy.
had it been left to me we wouldn't have done eight books in ten years and I could not have done that and it took not only his assistance and working together on the project but
There were times when he had to lean on me a little and push, and I'm the kind of person that needs that.
I need what?
I needed a coach when I was an athlete to push me a little bit.
Otherwise, I'd get lazy and get complacent.
The most remarkable thing about L.D.
Brodsky is that he never gets complacent.
He never tires.
He has this remarkable energy level and this drive, and it is obsessive.
It's also very magnificent because of the touch.
It gives him something to look forward to the next day.
He doesn't really believe in resting on his laws as a collector.
And I think the opportunity to publish... When I met this guy, there was no way he could have written a full-length biography of William Faulkner.
I mean, the book that Texas did.
He could not have done that 10, 12 years ago.
He couldn't even write a footnote.
That's right.
and so uh and the graduate school training that he had had been in other directions or it just uh but i mean we both learned from the experience and one thing that he learned is scholarship and how to write footnotes and how to go out and that's what made this whole thing work too i call it a kind of chemistry that was so positive
If the chemistry hadn't been there, Bob and I would have recognized it early on.
But when we started working together, we knew that we shared, that there was a kindredness to our sensibilities, that we had certainly shared an interest in Faulkner's literature.
That was the prime sharing with which we both started, or the point from which we began.
But what we found is that we really enjoyed working together and being together.
And we found that, therefore, the work wasn't work at all.
was a kind of special pleasure, and it remains that to this day.
I will tell you this, not to be a mutual admiration society, but I chose, if you will, a collaborator, a partner, who is every bit my equal in energy and staying power.
And I demand that.
I am very strong.
And people I demanded in an unspoken way.
Had Bob not had all the strengths that he had,
And certainly he had one wonderful thing that he brought to the equation, which was all of his academic background, his training.
I did not have that training.
My training had pretty well been artistic, if you will.
I mentioned to you that they didn't ask me to return to do my PhD at Washington U.
Basically, I didn't bring to that thesis the kind of academic skills they wanted.
I did bring to it innovative ideas.
And so what happened to make that chemistry work was that Bob and I together share, shared and do share to this day, such wonderfully compatible elements of what we do that are both disparate and yet they share.
Rather, Faulkner wrote a dedication.
I love that.
I'll come back to it if I can quote it right.
In Big Woods, he was thanking Saks Cummins, his editor, for at that point almost 20 years.
And he said in his dedication to that book something to this effect, and we can corroborate it when we look it up.
We may not have always seen eye to eye.
but we have always been looking at the same thing. It is just so wonderful. He always had a way of saying it. He did and he said it almost like that, and I'd like to get it right. If you print it but I will tell you I feel that way with Bob. We're two individuals who have had found a sharing a compatibility that has been
as I said, transcended to all the publishing we've done, to all the work.
We're on something, we're on the brink together of something extremely exciting, and it would fulfill my greatest dream for this collection.
And that is that it not only become a public
repository, which it is, but that it have the proper housing.
And though no one has heard of Southeast Missouri State in a national way, or not often, if we get in place what Bob and others here have initiated, which is a Center for Faulkner Studies, it will be on the map.
And we're working toward that.
And that's something I want Bob to describe to you in a little detail later.
It's the epitome for me of what started out
is that little book collection at Yale to bring it in a 30, 32 year period from that point to this point where we have an auditorium and classrooms and showrooms and money allocated for preservation and expansion of the collection as a government funded operation.
It would be a phenomenal testimony to what's here.
I hear some questions from Robert.
I don't want to answer your question.
Go ahead if you want to.
No, I'm done now.
Sorry to run in there.
I eat and talk a lot.
I'm always the last one finished because I talk so much.
To go back to the word staggering, you know, collection, maybe you could pick up a little bit on that.
As a scholar, does it have staggering context?
Well, it did when I first saw it, and even more so now, because it's doubled in size and all the material that has been added.
Just the 1940s movie scripts, for example.
We brought those in about 84 or 85, didn't we?
And nobody even, you know...
These things just like came out of the woodwork.
We had a great article in Love's Press, the French Weekly Magazine, that's the approval of Time, about the find of that Egal story and also about the fact that it's here at Southeast Missouri State.
That was quite a nice article.
Anybody for dessert?
Not for me, thanks. When I came to southeast I left Mississippi. I left Ole Miss. I had finished my graduate work, my dissertation on Faulkner, and I thought I needed a break from Faulkner and I was always interested in Robert Frost and I checked all the Faulker books in the library back into the library. I finished my dissertation, I checked out 15 books on Robert Frost, and I started this article on a Frost poet
and wrote the first paragraph or so, and then I met Ali.
And that ended, I haven't done the article on Frost.
He put me back into the partner, and so when he invited me to come up and see the collection for the first time, much of it then was stored at the Mercantile Bank in Farmington.
We went down, he went back into the vault.
They gave us a room to use there.
He opened these safety deposit boxes and pulled out these manuscripts and the burn fragments, some of those, the books.
I mean, I was blown away.
I had done a master's thesis and a dissertation on Faulkner, but I had never seen the original manuscripts.
I used paperback novels.
In doing my research, I had no real... It wasn't the kind of research where I needed the original materials.
I had never seen the original dust jackets on these novels.
And that's what I meant when I said it was staggering.
And University of Mississippi, when he was there, now that I'm putting this into perspective, had no manuscripts at that time at all.
And had what they called the Mississippiana Collection, but had very few Faulkner books of any stature, but had no manuscripts.
That wasn't until the 80s.
that they acquired what manuscripts they had.
And then to see it grow as it began to do
I have said repeatedly that I blame Bob for this collection because when we would work, there was such gratification in our working together, in our collaborations.
It inspired me to want to go out and find more materials so that we could do more work.
And there was no greed and there was no sense of ego in it.
It was this beautiful desire that Dee and I were creating something that was wonderful.
And what it was, was a story about the collection itself.
It isn't done yet.
Dee and I will finish the story.
It's six books to go before the story is concluded.
Are there any, you basically, you're a young man.
I mean, if you chose to continue collecting, you know, you've got 20, 30 years of productive collecting left.
if you so chose.
But do you basically see this as a complete collection?
Is there a treasure trove out there that would prompt you to drop everything?
I recently acquired eight letters from the Faulkner family.
Recently being like... Recently, within the last three months.
I am not working at acquiring with the avidity
that I had before because of the nature of where the collection is located right now.
It's owned by the state of Missouri.
I don't have funds available to me directly at this point to acquire more.
I am at perfect liberty to sell off anything I want in the collection and replace it with anything I wish to purchase with the money that I get from selling.
That's part of my agreement with this university.
My curatorial powers are all inclusive.
I may...
Deacquisition and acquisition anything that I choose for the 20 years and when I forego my position, my successor will not have any power whatsoever to deacquisition even the slightest item.
You have the authority.
Let's clarify this, okay?
You have the authority to add or subtract anything from the collection that you feel is appropriate or necessary.
Well, on behalf of the university.
But nevertheless, he doesn't have to run it by the Board of Regents or the President or anybody else.
I'm not sure about that.
Theoretically, I am supposed to let the President know what my intentions are.
But that would be a tacit.
kind of a thing, and I will do that.
Have you added, or have you added?
I have added, and I'm at the point where I may have to deacquisition some items.
We've traded a couple of them.
We've traded some already.
See, again, as you build a manuscript collection, you might trade off a few books.
Well, that's what I intend to do right now.
What I've been adding... We need to develop the scholarly aspect of the collection, and so if there are 200 books inscribed at Faulkner,
Theoretically, you could sell off five or ten books, raise money to buy manuscripts, letters, whatever.
And the university has, in a sense, L.D.
is now an employee of the institution.
He's on the staff here, just as I am.
And he works as curator of this collection.
It's his responsibility in that position to continue to build the collection.
Now, until we acquire enough funding and get a budget for the center and so on that would enable us to do this with university funds,
Initially, we have to trade.
Presently, there's no money in the budget for the acquisition of new materials.
Since materials may come on the market that L.D.
is interested in for the collection, he's worked out this very imaginative and creative way of financing those until the university puts the center in place and has funding.
None of us wants to sell off any books to buy letters.
But over the next year or two, that's the only way we could acquire manuscript material.
LD has the authority to do that.
And I'm probably going to begin doing that now.
And since he's the collector, and I'm the director of the Faulkner Center, but my role is scholarly, and he's still the collector, and I would not have the qualifications or knowledge or ability to do that.
So the deal that the university cut with Brodsky, we not only got a Faulkner collection,
In fact, Stacy told me early on, we're not interested in just getting the collection, we want the collector.
We want his services.
We want his experience and expertise working for this institution.
And so what we're in now is a transition period until we're truly established as a partner center.
We have to look for some rather creative ways to generate revenue to enable LD to acquire letters and manuscripts.
So you still are able to... You are still able to...
is satisfied by the collecting kick. That was so you know where I'm coming from. I would like to believe that truly I have the best of all the worlds. I retained them for myself. I created this so that I could still as it were play the game, and I don't mind in quotes working for
the university because in essence I always felt I was working for all of us in creating the collection.
I told you it was never done for monetary reasons and it wasn't done because I wanted to become some great collectorly celebrity.
He even gets fringe benefits in medical plans.
But I enjoy and I feel good about being a part of this university.
It makes me feel good to think I'm on the staff of this university.
It's a role but
I always felt I was a curator, in the best sense of the word, when I was putting together this collection of Faulkner material.
I was curating for all of us.
Did you make this, did you make this, and I hesitate to use the word demand, but did you make this a requirement?
Yes, I did.
I made up many requirements.
I mean, this particular one.
Yes.
That you retain this authority.
Indeed.
Was this something that you insisted when you were talking with Gail and Mississippi and the others?
I was getting to that, yes.
Yes, and they had a real problem with that because they felt I was stepping on their toes.
I never got to Yale with that because they were so haughty that they didn't allow me to get that far into their inner sanctum.
But that's something that you would have required.
Absolutely.
And at Ole Miss, I did cover a lot of that ground, and they weren't exactly amenable.
The money portion of it, they could work out, and they also found it not...
When I suggested that they could help themselves monetarily by making me part of their staff, they had a real problem with that, which is their loss.
This is not unprecedented, of course.
I mean, Carlton Lake is the executive curator at the University of Texas, Harry Ransom.
I mean, he came with his...
he came with his... Well I don't think it's unprecedented either and i think it's... And of course what they what do they get, as point out, they don't just get the collection. You've got that, you've got the engine that moves this. Well and the engine... This whole thing together and has the expert knows how to get things and add things and certainly has a taste in connoisseurship because that's already been demonstrated you know. Well you asked me am I still a collector? Am I still interested in collecting? And the answer on both
to both of those is, yes, I am.
But you're now collecting for the university.
I am, and I'm doing it with a different approach, too.
I'm not quite as aggressive with it at this point because I'm trying to back myself off.
There were a number of items in the Peterson Faulkner collection that I would have liked to have had.
Bob and I worked through our collection.
They would have enhanced a number of our shortcomings, areas where we're lacking reprints or second printings or what have you.
We didn't go in for any of that because I decided to divert that money instead into manuscript materials.
The one book I bought that I told you out of the collection, the only piece, that cost me $23,000.
That piece had an inscribed poem I told you of James Joyce. What it was was Faulkner one night talking with his friend Tony Butita down in North Carolina getting drunk. Faulkner we all know loved poetry and loved to quote poetry and was legion at misquoting poetry. So he and Tony were trying to quote this poem, which he loved by the way, he read it verbatim. He used to read the needle bolts at san sabato verbatim, his mistress out in california
They were trying to get it right, and they were both drunk, and they were both getting it wrong.
So Faulkner finally said, OK, Tony, goddammit, I'm going to write it in the book.
Here's how it is.
So we'll show him that book today, but it says, for Tony, this is how it is, or something like that.
And then he misquotes, proceeds to misquote this wonderful Joyce poem.
And I think it's a manuscript.
The point is, that I was trying to make, I bought one piece out of the Peterson collection, and it was not a book, really.
It wasn't really a presentation copy to Tony Boutita.
It is, in fact, a manuscript, if you will.
And it's a wonderful artifact.
I am collecting, I still have the enthusiasm, but I'm doing it in a different way now because I am, as it were, beholden to the collection now, to the university, and though I have always had a fit with bureaucracy, well, I'll tell you what, the agreement I made with the university pretty well allows me to skirt its day-to-day bureaucracy.
And short of that, I would not have made a deal with this university or any other one because for me to have to follow
academic bureaucracy to the letter, which is fine, that's the way you run a government organization, would have been to never put a book collection together.
Because you jump at things when they're there.
If you have to take four to six months to get a board's approval or someone else's approval to acquire something, you're dead, it's gone.
And so that's workable too.
But yes, there are a lot of contingent agreements
in this wonderful creative contract that Bill Stacy was farsighted enough to not only find acceptable, but agreeable, because he wanted me to expand the collection.
And he knew that it was only on those terms that I could feel comfortable and free.
I work for the university, and yet I'm very free.
And the university appreciates that, and I think has great respect for me.
I think that one reason that the university could enter this kind of agreement with Eldie was because he'd worked with the university for 10 years.
And in looking back and seeing how this all unfolded, I think it did wind up that we had the inside track.
I mean, we didn't know what we had the inside track for, and we weren't out there trying to acquire the collection.
It hadn't even dawned on us that we might be able to do that.
But when he talked to Yale or Ole Miss, they hadn't been working with him for 10 years.
And understandably, they may have been a little nervous about bringing the collector on board with the collection to be involved.
You see, whereas we had no reservations about that sort of thing because we'd already been working with him for 10 years.
And the collaboration had gone very well.
He was very, he was obviously interested in the welfare of the institution.
And we had had success with the collection.
Dean Goodwin, President Stacey, Chairman of the English Department, Henry Sussoms, the librarian, Jim Zink, I, all of us have been able to work with L.D.
very well.
You said there was a man named Roger Peterson.
In the early 80s, a man who I believe was named Roger Peterson, but it was Peterson and we could find that out easily from Yale.
From Yale.
Who was the acting librarian on my invitation and on his pursuing it, came down and visited with me at Farmington, at my home in Farmington in the early 80s.
And we talked about...
the possibility of the Beinecke getting it.
He pursued it.
He initiated it.
I didn't call him.
He had called me, is the way I want to get that on the record.
I may have said it wrong initially.
I was very excited.
I talked with him.
That was early on.
I hadn't formulated it.
I had not formulated all of the requirements that would be necessary to satisfy me psychologically, emotionally, if I were going to disburden myself for this collection.
But I had enough of them in place so that we talked.
And I remember one of the discussions we had, though I hate to go on record with this, was that my two children would be allowed to go to Yale free.
That that would be one of the requirements that they would have no problem with.
I don't want to go on record with them.
So I had in my mind even then the necessity of requiring certain things if I were going to do this.
He was real excited about acquiring this collection and we went into negotiations.
He was soon replaced.
And that was sad because his successor, maybe a man named Franklin, who is still there, he didn't pursue me, so I pursued him.
He made a limp invitation for me to come up and I may have visited with his assistant because he was not there the day that they invited me to come up.
And I met with his assistant who was a rather arrogant young man.
who knew so much that it was obvious I didn't know anything.
And I was really put off that day in New Haven, and I left there very disillusioned.
And I thought, well, fuck them, too.
I don't lose any of those fuck yous in this army.
This isn't the Bobby Knight movie.
No, it's not.
You know, I haven't even mentioned that, but...
I do want my typist to put them down and we'll deal with them later.
But it really was disillusioned.
And then the second time I went to Yale.
This guy, in a week's time, had an option to close the deal, a check, I mean, he jumped on me.
So Stacy is telling me, sent Meldy a check for about a thousand or two thousand dollars, something like that.
But what it was, was...
It was an option.
90 days.
It was a 90 day option.
And in that time they would see if they could close a deal.
And I was very excited to receive the check because it said that they were as... How quickly did you receive it?
Like a week?
A week.
Within a week of the check?
A week after the conversation.
well he was smart. He said. Well I told you that he had a background that wasn't in administration so much as it was in though he was a good administrator, but it was in English and public speaking. For two years. Yes yes one of the things. They never really got down to anything serious. And get down because I think they also maybe wanted
to give it to them you know. Well no they were willing I told you, and they would have gone higher monetarily. Our initial talks set it up so that porter fortune had no problem with cutting me a million dollar check for that collection which was very nominal, even then when I talked with him. And I threw that out as a starting point but
What I had here at Southeast Missouri State, I also realized I wasn't going to have at Washington U and Yale for various reasons.
I couldn't work at Yale and be a curator there all the time.
I wanted still to be part of this collection.
So what I was able to do was both give it to the world and yet retain it.
Now that is a real difficult trick.
Bill Stacey appreciated that in all its nuances.
The agreement that I created
He accepted point by point by point with virtually no modifications except the few that he needed to make in terms of his creative financing.
But he applauded my desire to want to retain, as it were, control, not nominal, but control of the collection.
When I give up my tenure, people will be able to add to this collection, but not
dismantle it so that I have a hand for the next 18 years now of the 20-year contract that's running in continuing to shape it.
Now that pleasures me a lot.
I have many other options that came with that.
Do you have an option to renew Office 20?
I have an option to be continued.
Not with this partner.
I've got to write that Frost article.
We're now in the Rare Book Room.
Is that the formal name of this?
This is the Rare Book Room.
The Kent Library.
You said this collection also has... It has the most formidable collection of photographs.
I'm going to run an error.
Okay.
All right.
Inscribed Faulkner photos are real hard to find.
This collection has eight inscribed Faulkner photos.
I mentioned to you in our earlier discussion about the Salma Gundi and the rarity of those.
This one is a real gem, if I can pull the right one out.
Let's just talk about, this may not be the best example, but let's talk about variation.
You can see in this, on all these shelves, so many titles that look alike, identical.
And I suggested to you that we don't have duplications in this collection.
But I see three Dr. Martinos.
Okay, let's... You don't see three, you see about 15.
And I'm going to suggest that each of those is different.
Okay.
And they may be different in that one belonged to Saks Cummins and one to Phil Stone and has his signature in it, or it may have the bookplate of William Alexander Percy, or five of those may have inscriptions from Faulkner to various people, such as his daughter Chocho.
So they have unique aspects.
Unique aspects to the same appearing book.
Right.
Let me just show you this as an example, and then I'll show you some more nice things.
Do you want to see nice books?
Yes.
I'm going to show you nice books.
I'm going to show you books that if I had to bring them out in Glenn Horowitz's bookshop, you'd have said I made a bad deal getting rid of these books because I know they're very valuable.
I really haven't followed the book stock market.
May I just hold one?
Sure.
This book is the only known inscribed copy of Salma Gundi.
It's a presentation copy to Hubert Starr.
Hubert, H-U-B-E-R-T-S-T-A-R-R.
From William Faulkner.
What's this here?
Santa Monica, 23 July 1934.
These are during the movie days, right?
Yes, this was in his first trips, his first few trips to the movies.
The condition is rather wonderful, isn't it?
Beautiful.
Well, Hubert knew that Faulkner was going to be famous, and he put these books away.
And that's Salma Gundi, S-A-L-M-A-G-U-N-D-I.
Now, hold on.
We're just going to give you a real array of just gems.
I'll just go through it because I know you appreciate fine books.
We're talking about rare Faulkner books, ones of a kind.
I have not at this point, and we'll begin, putting all the books in glassine.
I haven't ever spent the money having nice fancy boxes.
Well, you're going to start acting like a curator.
Well, I'll start, is right, because these books are so profound.
You're going to wear your curatorial hat.
Well, I guess I am to a certain extent.
But I always felt it was more important to spend the money on the books.
Now, I really ought to take another example on this to see what this might just be a straight copy of that.
Let's sound with Indy.
Yeah.
But there are five different variations here, and that may be your normal one.
I don't even want to go through all this, really.
I don't think it's necessary.
It isn't.
Now I got myself curious, but we've got time.
You don't have to.
You're running all that.
I don't know what's... One of this may have been trim top
This was the one that's the oddball trimming.
Anyway, let me show you.
I showed you the one that was the inscribed.
That's the most significant.
I think one of these had a William Alexander Percy.
There it is.
Which I like a lot.
I think that's real significant.
A Mississippian, a poet.
He wrote Lanterns on the Levee.
Not a book of poems.
But Faulkner knew him and had respect for him.
So I think that's an exciting book.
Why did Hemingway write that little poem on the back of Selma Goodney?
Or why did they compile it?
Well...
Ultimately, Ernest Hemingway, and it's a four-line poem, dated June 1922.
I think the fact that they were put together was just sort of a real anomaly.
It's great for collectors.
Yeah, it's great for collectors.
What makes this one nice is that it had the prospectus in it, and it gives you some of the data that nothing else would have given you.
Not a bad price.
Well, that was a long time ago.
$500?
Long time ago.
That book today... Is that what you paid?
Probably.
Do you ever try and work them down?
I do.
Oh, sure.
Let me show you something wonderful in here.
Well, actually, it just depends.
That looks like a Rockwell Kent book plate.
It sure does, and it probably is.
This one was a normal one.
I mean, the book plate does.
Yeah, yeah.
This was the normal copy, I guess.
Uncut?
No, not completely uncut.
That's Miss Zilphia Gant, G-A-N-T.
What I'm real proud of, that's a normal copy.
This is a copy with the original glass scene.
Again, the book is hard to find.
It was limited.
It was not signed, but limited.
That's copy number 60.
So these are just two copies of that that aren't particularly unique.
What is the significance of this book?
It was a short story, and it came out from the book club of Dallas in 1932, and it was limited.
That's a tough mama.
Oh, it's a real tough mama.
It was tough even when I started.
I'm going to show you something that blows my mind.
There are four of these in the collection, and they are Faulkner's own.
copy that he kept in his own library and signed.
This is it here?
This was his own copy of this book.
This is inscribed William Faulkner, Oxford, Mississippi.
Rowanoak.
R-O-W-A-N-O-A-K.
One word.
Rowanoak.
Which is?
His home.
The name of his home.
27 August, 1932.
That's his own copy.
There is nothing more significant to me than this kind of a collectorly item for book collecting.
This is the epitope.
I just want to get my own book.
I'm going to show you four of these.
I'm going to show you some other books that came out of his library.
I'm going to tell you a couple stories.
This one and three others came out of the mother's home in Oxford.
These belong to William.
William stored them at his mother's home.
I got them from the family.
Good, I'm listening.
I'm going to show you a copy of The Unvanquished now that is a little different than that.
If I...
See, Faulkner knew enough to keep the original glassine on, too, didn't he?
No, that one's not the original glassine, sorry.
Uh, no, not, he didn't.
He didn't know that much.
I'll just shut this off for a second.
Example.
We're gonna have some fun now, right?
I'm gonna take, uh, two, four, five, six, seven,
How many?
Three, five, seven, eight copies of The Unvanquished.
Some with dust jackets, some without.
Oh, LD, why would you collect an Unvanquished without a dust jacket?
Well, Nick, because this one was A.I.
Buzzerides' copy.
Faulkner lived with Buzzerides for two years out in California.
Well, that's where you found this.
Oh, so why would you collect one that had a slight water stain on the cover?
Well, because, book dealer, it belonged to one of Faulkner's real good friends, Buzzerides.
Oh, and why would you have this one with no dust jacket?
Well, this one says the Tootsie.
T-O-O-T-S-I-E.
Merry Christmas 1938 Chocho.
Well, that's not Faulkner's hand.
C-H-C-H-O-C-H-O.
That's not Faulkner's hand.
You're right, Nick, that's not.
That's Faulkner's stepdaughter's hand, Chocho Victoria Fielden.
That's her handwriting.
And she apparently gave that book to her friend Tootsie for Merry Christmas 1938.
Okay, but here's something that's a little more interesting.
For Tootsie Brown on the title page in William Faulkner's hand.
Rowan Oak.
20 Rowan Oak, 1938.
Two words there.
Did he change the spelling of his house?
He did in that case, didn't he?
Very interesting.
Now, what's the story behind this one?
Is it possible that Tootsie was a good friend of his stepdaughter, Chocho, and that she came to spend Christmas with the Faulkners that Christmas in 1938?
And that Chocho, Victoria, happened to give her friend a gift, which was her copy of The Unvanquished?
And is it possible she said...
Billy, would you mind inscribing this for my friend Tootsie?
And of course he did.
And wouldn't it be nice if I could have known Tootsie Brown myself and have gotten the book from her?
And I've had all the story about that and interviewed her and learned all about Rowanoak in 1938, which is all of what I did.
So the book is a wonderful book.
It's probably a $20,000 book.
The book to me has no value.
It has all value, and the value is all personal.
I couldn't give a hoot.
It's kind of like a Rosetta Stone, isn't it?
Yeah, it is.
It's wonderful.
Okay.
Do you like that?
Yeah, I like that.
You can have it.
I like it a lot.
I like it very much.
What have I got here?
Why do I have one here that, again, doesn't have a dust jacket and doesn't look like it has anything that distinguishes it?
The only answer is I probably don't know.
Oh, yes, I know.
I do know.
It's a second printing, and I probably had no second printings.
And so that's why that one's there.
It's not a first edition.
Why would you want a second printing?
Well, because I want different printings, especially early on.
If you have a dust jacket, quite often it'll tell you a lot of history.
That, I think, is white dust jackets.
Oh, yeah.
And for the ephemeral material that you get.
Oh, so important.
This book could have come out a month or so after that.
Who knows?
It could have come out two years.
I really don't know if we know yet.
There are some blurbs written by very famous people that are to be found no place else.
Not blurbs.
I'm talking about testimonials.
So far, I've showed you four copies with no dust jacket.
A collector would say, I won't buy them.
Three copies.
Fourth coming up.
I wouldn't buy them.
A copy without a dust jacket?
Well, Nick, would you buy the inscribed Faulkner?
Oh, yeah, I'd think about that.
It'd sure be better with a dust jacket.
Stupid.
Here's another one.
No dust jacket.
Oh, but this is Maude Morrow Brown.
Who is she, 1938, the year that the book was published?
Well, she was Calvin Brown's wife.
And she was the mother of the daughter to whom Faulkner inscribed and wrote The Wishing Tree.
For whom?
Eleven years earlier.
Well, she's really important because she's also... Where'd you find these, LD?
Any of these from jailers?
No.
Is this field work?
All field work.
From the Brown family.
From Calvin Brown, the wonderful teacher.
The son of Mark.